EMR-driven nonnegative restricted Boltzmann machines (eNRBM)
============================================================
Contact: [tu.nguyen@deakin.edu.au]

This package supports the submission "Learning vector representation of medical objects via
EMR-driven nonnegative restricted Boltzmann machines (eNRBM)" to [Journal of Biomedical Informatics (JBI) - Elsevier](http://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-biomedical-informatics/)

The package is written in MATLAB and tested on Windows 64bit machines. Please make sure *MATLAB* are available.

There are two main parts:

	1. Synthetic data
	2. Code	and demo scripts

The details are described as below:

Data
============================================================
The data are generated by a learnt RBM model. Here we simulate 1000 patients with 5321 features and 3 classes:

	1: no risk,
	2: moderate risk,
	3: high risk.
	
The features are similar to the EMR features of heart failure cohort described in the manuscript.

We split the data to perform 10-fold cross-validation. The patient data can be loaded from the file *gen_data.mat* wherein:

	X: data matrix,
	y: classes,
	idx_train: a cell of 10 arrays of the data indices used for training,
	idx_test: a cell of 10 arrays of the data indices used for testing/validation.
	

The file "feat_correl.txt" contains feature graph in which each line "i,j,1" implies the feature #i connects to feature #j.


Code and Demo Scripts
============================================================

All codes are in ".m" files with fair detailed comments. Here we provide 2 demo scripts:

	demo_lr_emr: run Logistic Regression,
	demo_enrbm_lr_emr: run eNRBM followed by Logistic Regression.
	
Citation
============================================================

`
@ARTICLE { tran_nguyen_phung_venkatesh_bi15learning, AUTHOR = { Tran, Truyen and Nguyen, Tu and Phung, Dinh and Venkatesh, Svetha }, TITLE = { Learning vector representation of medical objects via {EMR}-driven nonnegative restricted {B}oltzmann machines }, JOURNAL = { Journal of Biomedical Informatics (JBI) }, YEAR = { 2015 }, VOLUME = { 54 }, PAGES = { 96--105 }, MONTH = { April }, DOI = { 10.1016/j.jbi.2015.01.012 }, URL = { http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046415000143 }, }


`

